site/content/docs/4.3/content/typography.md, before:

---
layout: docs
title: Typography
description: Documentation and examples for Bootstrap typography, including global settings, headings, body text, lists, and more.
group: content
toc: true
---

## Global settings

Bootstrap sets basic global display, typography, and link styles. When more control is needed, check out the [textual utility classes]({{< docsref "/utilities/text" >}}).

- Use a [native font stack]({{< docsref "/content/reboot#native-font-stack" >}}) that selects the best `font-family` for each OS and device.
- For a more inclusive and accessible type scale, we assume the browser default root `font-size` (typically 16px) so visitors can customize their browser defaults as needed.
- Use the `$font-family-base`, `$font-size-base`, and `$line-height-base` attributes as our typographic base applied to the `<body>`.
- Set the global link color via `$link-color` and apply link underlines only on `:hover`.
- Use `$body-bg` to set a `background-color` on the `<body>` (`#fff` by default).

These styles can be found within `_reboot.scss`, and the global variables are defined in `_variables.scss`. Make sure to set `$font-size-base` in `rem`.

## Headings

All HTML headings, `<h1>` through `<h6>`, are available.

<table class="table">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Heading</th>
      <th>Example</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        {{< markdown >}}`<h1></h1>`{{< /markdown >}}
      </td>
      <td><span class="h1">h1. Bootstrap heading</span></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        {{< markdown >}}`<h2></h2>`{{< /markdown >}}
      </td>
      <td><span class="h2">h2. Bootstrap heading</span></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        {{< markdown >}}`<h3></h3>`{{< /markdown >}}
      </td>
      <td><span class="h3">h3. Bootstrap heading</span></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        {{< markdown >}}`<h4></h4>`{{< /markdown >}}
      </td>
      <td><span class="h4">h4. Bootstrap heading</span></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        {{< markdown >}}`<h5></h5>`{{< /markdown >}}
      </td>
      <td><span class="h5">h5. Bootstrap heading</span></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        {{< markdown >}}`<h6></h6>`{{< /markdown >}}
      </td>
      <td><span class="h6">h6. Bootstrap heading</span></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

{{< highlight html >}}
<h1>h1. Bootstrap heading</h1>
<h2>h2. Bootstrap heading</h2>
<h3>h3. Bootstrap heading</h3>
<h4>h4. Bootstrap heading</h4>
<h5>h5. Bootstrap heading</h5>
<h6>h6. Bootstrap heading</h6>
{{< /highlight >}}

`.h1` through `.h6` classes are also available, for when you want to match the font styling of a heading but cannot use the associated HTML element.

{{< example >}}
<p class="h1">h1. Bootstrap heading</p>
<p class="h2">h2. Bootstrap heading</p>
<p class="h3">h3. Bootstrap heading</p>
<p class="h4">h4. Bootstrap heading</p>
<p class="h5">h5. Bootstrap heading</p>
<p class="h6">h6. Bootstrap heading</p>
{{< /example >}}

### Customizing headings

Use the included utility classes to recreate the small secondary heading text from Bootstrap 3.

{{< example >}}
<h3>
  Fancy display heading
  <small class="text-muted">With faded secondary text</small>
</h3>
{{< /example >}}

## Display headings

Traditional heading elements are designed to work best in the meat of your page content. When you need a heading to stand out, consider using a **display heading**—a larger, slightly more opinionated heading style. Keep in mind these headings are not responsive by default, but it's possible to enable [responsive font sizes](#responsive-font-sizes).

<div class="bd-example bd-example-type">
  <table class="table">
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td><span class="display-1">Display 1</span></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
      <td><span class="display-2">Display 2</span></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
      <td><span class="display-3">Display 3</span></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
      <td><span class="display-4">Display 4</span></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

{{< highlight html >}}
<h1 class="display-1">Display 1</h1>
<h1 class="display-2">Display 2</h1>
<h1 class="display-3">Display 3</h1>
<h1 class="display-4">Display 4</h1>
{{< /highlight >}}

## Lead

Make a paragraph stand out by adding `.lead`.

{{< example >}}
<p class="lead">
  Vivamus sagittis lacus vel augue laoreet rutrum faucibus dolor auctor. Duis mollis, est non commodo luctus.
</p>
{{< /example >}}

## Inline text elements

Styling for common inline HTML5 elements.

{{< example >}}
<p>You can use the mark tag to <mark>highlight</mark> text.</p>
<p><del>This line of text is meant to be treated as deleted text.</del></p>
<p><s>This line of text is meant to be treated as no longer accurate.</s></p>
<p><ins>This line of text is meant to be treated as an addition to the document.</ins></p>
<p><u>This line of text will render as underlined</u></p>
<p><small>This line of text is meant to be treated as fine print.</small></p>
<p><strong>This line rendered as bold text.</strong></p>
<p><em>This line rendered as italicized text.</em></p>
{{< /example >}}

`.mark` and `.small` classes are also available to apply the same styles as `<mark>` and `<small>` while avoiding any unwanted semantic implications that the tags would bring.

While not shown above, feel free to use `<b>` and `<i>` in HTML5. `<b>` is meant to highlight words or phrases without conveying additional importance while `<i>` is mostly for voice, technical terms, etc.

## Text utilities

Change text alignment, transform, style, weight, and color with our [text utilities]({{< docsref "/utilities/text" >}}) and [color utilities]({{< docsref "/utilities/colors" >}}).

## Abbreviations

Stylized implementation of HTML's `<abbr>` element for abbreviations and acronyms to show the expanded version on hover. Abbreviations have a default underline and gain a help cursor to provide additional context on hover and to users of assistive technologies.

Add `.initialism` to an abbreviation for a slightly smaller font-size.

{{< example >}}
<p><abbr title="attribute">attr</abbr></p>
<p><abbr title="HyperText Markup Language" class="initialism">HTML</abbr></p>
{{< /example >}}

## Blockquotes

For quoting blocks of content from another source within your document. Wrap `<blockquote class="blockquote">` around any <abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr> as the quote.

{{< example >}}
<blockquote class="blockquote">
  <p class="mb-0">Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Integer posuere erat a ante.</p>
</blockquote>
{{< /example >}}

### Naming a source

Add a `<footer class="blockquote-footer">` for identifying the source. Wrap the name of the source work in `<cite>`.

{{< example >}}
<blockquote class="blockquote">
  <p class="mb-0">Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Integer posuere erat a ante.</p>
  <footer class="blockquote-footer">Someone famous in <cite title="Source Title">Source Title</cite></footer>
</blockquote>
{{< /example >}}

### Alignment

Use text utilities as needed to change the alignment of your blockquote.

{{< example >}}
<blockquote class="blockquote text-center">
  <p class="mb-0">Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Integer posuere erat a ante.</p>
  <footer class="blockquote-footer">Someone famous in <cite title="Source Title">Source Title</cite></footer>
</blockquote>
{{< /example >}}

{{< example >}}
<blockquote class="blockquote text-right">
  <p class="mb-0">Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Integer posuere erat a ante.</p>
  <footer class="blockquote-footer">Someone famous in <cite title="Source Title">Source Title</cite></footer>
</blockquote>
{{< /example >}}

## Lists

### Unstyled

Remove the default `list-style` and left margin on list items (immediate children only). **This only applies to immediate children list items**, meaning you will need to add the class for any nested lists as well.

{{< example >}}
<ul class="list-unstyled">
  <li>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet</li>
  <li>Consectetur adipiscing elit</li>
  <li>Integer molestie lorem at massa</li>
  <li>Facilisis in pretium nisl aliquet</li>
  <li>Nulla volutpat aliquam velit
    <ul>
      <li>Phasellus iaculis neque</li>
      <li>Purus sodales ultricies</li>
      <li>Vestibulum laoreet porttitor sem</li>
      <li>Ac tristique libero volutpat at</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Faucibus porta lacus fringilla vel</li>
  <li>Aenean sit amet erat nunc</li>
  <li>Eget porttitor lorem</li>
</ul>
{{< /example >}}

### Inline

Remove a list's bullets and apply some light `margin` with a combination of two classes, `.list-inline` and `.list-inline-item`.

{{< example >}}
<ul class="list-inline">
  <li class="list-inline-item">Lorem ipsum</li>
  <li class="list-inline-item">Phasellus iaculis</li>
  <li class="list-inline-item">Nulla volutpat</li>
</ul>
{{< /example >}}

### Description list alignment

Align terms and descriptions horizontally by using our grid system's predefined classes (or semantic mixins). For longer terms, you can optionally add a `.text-truncate` class to truncate the text with an ellipsis.

{{< example >}}
<dl class="row">
  <dt class="col-sm-3">Description lists</dt>
  <dd class="col-sm-9">A description list is perfect for defining terms.</dd>

  <dt class="col-sm-3">Euismod</dt>
  <dd class="col-sm-9">
    <p>Vestibulum id ligula porta felis euismod semper eget lacinia odio sem nec elit.</p>
    <p>Donec id elit non mi porta gravida at eget metus.</p>
  </dd>

  <dt class="col-sm-3">Malesuada porta</dt>
  <dd class="col-sm-9">Etiam porta sem malesuada magna mollis euismod.</dd>

  <dt class="col-sm-3 text-truncate">Truncated term is truncated</dt>
  <dd class="col-sm-9">Fusce dapibus, tellus ac cursus commodo, tortor mauris condimentum nibh, ut fermentum massa justo sit amet risus.</dd>

  <dt class="col-sm-3">Nesting</dt>
  <dd class="col-sm-9">
    <dl class="row">
      <dt class="col-sm-4">Nested definition list</dt>
      <dd class="col-sm-8">Aenean posuere, tortor sed cursus feugiat, nunc augue blandit nunc.</dd>
    </dl>
  </dd>
</dl>
{{< /example >}}

## Responsive font sizes

Bootstrap v4.3 ships with the option to enable responsive font sizes, allowing text to scale more naturally across device and viewport sizes. <abbr title="Responsive font sizes">RFS</abbr> can be enabled by changing the `$enable-responsive-font-sizes` Sass variable to `true` and recompiling Bootstrap.

To support <abbr title="Responsive font sizes">RFS</abbr>, we use a Sass mixin to replace our normal `font-size` properties. Responsive font sizes will be compiled into `calc()` functions with a mix of `rem` and viewport units to enable the responsive scaling behavior. More about <abbr title="Responsive font sizes">RFS</abbr> and its configuration can be found on its [GitHub repository](https://github.com/twbs/rfs).

Commit message:

RFS implementation
- Responsive font sizes are now enabled by default
- Utility API integration
  - Fluid rescaling is also applied to the spacing utilities (option can be disabled)
  - New `.text-sm`, `.text-base`, `.text-lg` and `.text-xl` utilities
- Documentation page with basic how-to-use examples

site/content/docs/4.3/content/typography.md, after:

---
layout: docs
title: Typography
description: Documentation and examples for Bootstrap typography, including global settings, headings, body text, lists, and more.
group: content
toc: true
---

## Global settings

Bootstrap sets basic global display, typography, and link styles. When more control is needed, check out the [textual utility classes]({{< docsref "/utilities/text" >}}).

- Use a [native font stack]({{< docsref "/content/reboot#native-font-stack" >}}) that selects the best `font-family` for each OS and device.
- For a more inclusive and accessible type scale, we assume the browser default root `font-size` (typically 16px) so visitors can customize their browser defaults as needed.
- Use the `$font-family-base`, `$font-size-base`, and `$line-height-base` attributes as our typographic base applied to the `<body>`.
- Set the global link color via `$link-color` and apply link underlines only on `:hover`.
- Use `$body-bg` to set a `background-color` on the `<body>` (`#fff` by default).

These styles can be found within `_reboot.scss`, and the global variables are defined in `_variables.scss`. Make sure to set `$font-size-base` in `rem`.

## Headings

All HTML headings, `<h1>` through `<h6>`, are available.

<table class="table">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Heading</th>
      <th>Example</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        {{< markdown >}}`<h1></h1>`{{< /markdown >}}
      </td>
      <td><span class="h1">h1. Bootstrap heading</span></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        {{< markdown >}}`<h2></h2>`{{< /markdown >}}
      </td>
      <td><span class="h2">h2. Bootstrap heading</span></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        {{< markdown >}}`<h3></h3>`{{< /markdown >}}
      </td>
      <td><span class="h3">h3. Bootstrap heading</span></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        {{< markdown >}}`<h4></h4>`{{< /markdown >}}
      </td>
      <td><span class="h4">h4. Bootstrap heading</span></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        {{< markdown >}}`<h5></h5>`{{< /markdown >}}
      </td>
      <td><span class="h5">h5. Bootstrap heading</span></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        {{< markdown >}}`<h6></h6>`{{< /markdown >}}
      </td>
      <td><span class="h6">h6. Bootstrap heading</span></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

{{< highlight html >}}
<h1>h1. Bootstrap heading</h1>
<h2>h2. Bootstrap heading</h2>
<h3>h3. Bootstrap heading</h3>
<h4>h4. Bootstrap heading</h4>
<h5>h5. Bootstrap heading</h5>
<h6>h6. Bootstrap heading</h6>
{{< /highlight >}}

`.h1` through `.h6` classes are also available, for when you want to match the font styling of a heading but cannot use the associated HTML element.

{{< example >}}
<p class="h1">h1. Bootstrap heading</p>
<p class="h2">h2. Bootstrap heading</p>
<p class="h3">h3. Bootstrap heading</p>
<p class="h4">h4. Bootstrap heading</p>
<p class="h5">h5. Bootstrap heading</p>
<p class="h6">h6. Bootstrap heading</p>
{{< /example >}}

### Customizing headings

Use the included utility classes to recreate the small secondary heading text from Bootstrap 3.

{{< example >}}
<h3>
  Fancy display heading
  <small class="text-muted">With faded secondary text</small>
</h3>
{{< /example >}}

## Display headings

Traditional heading elements are designed to work best in the meat of your page content. When you need a heading to stand out, consider using a **display heading**—a larger, slightly more opinionated heading style.

<div class="bd-example bd-example-type">
  <table class="table">
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td><span class="display-1">Display 1</span></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
      <td><span class="display-2">Display 2</span></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
      <td><span class="display-3">Display 3</span></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
      <td><span class="display-4">Display 4</span></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

{{< highlight html >}}
<h1 class="display-1">Display 1</h1>
<h1 class="display-2">Display 2</h1>
<h1 class="display-3">Display 3</h1>
<h1 class="display-4">Display 4</h1>
{{< /highlight >}}

## Lead

Make a paragraph stand out by adding `.lead`.

{{< example >}}
<p class="lead">
  Vivamus sagittis lacus vel augue laoreet rutrum faucibus dolor auctor. Duis mollis, est non commodo luctus.
</p>
{{< /example >}}

## Inline text elements

Styling for common inline HTML5 elements.

{{< example >}}
<p>You can use the mark tag to <mark>highlight</mark> text.</p>
<p><del>This line of text is meant to be treated as deleted text.</del></p>
<p><s>This line of text is meant to be treated as no longer accurate.</s></p>
<p><ins>This line of text is meant to be treated as an addition to the document.</ins></p>
<p><u>This line of text will render as underlined</u></p>
<p><small>This line of text is meant to be treated as fine print.</small></p>
<p><strong>This line rendered as bold text.</strong></p>
<p><em>This line rendered as italicized text.</em></p>
{{< /example >}}

`.mark` and `.small` classes are also available to apply the same styles as `<mark>` and `<small>` while avoiding any unwanted semantic implications that the tags would bring.

While not shown above, feel free to use `<b>` and `<i>` in HTML5. `<b>` is meant to highlight words or phrases without conveying additional importance while `<i>` is mostly for voice, technical terms, etc.

## Text utilities

Change text alignment, transform, style, weight, and color with our [text utilities]({{< docsref "/utilities/text" >}}) and [color utilities]({{< docsref "/utilities/colors" >}}).

## Abbreviations

Stylized implementation of HTML's `<abbr>` element for abbreviations and acronyms to show the expanded version on hover. Abbreviations have a default underline and gain a help cursor to provide additional context on hover and to users of assistive technologies.

Add `.initialism` to an abbreviation for a slightly smaller font-size.

{{< example >}}
<p><abbr title="attribute">attr</abbr></p>
<p><abbr title="HyperText Markup Language" class="initialism">HTML</abbr></p>
{{< /example >}}

## Blockquotes

For quoting blocks of content from another source within your document. Wrap `<blockquote class="blockquote">` around any <abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr> as the quote.

{{< example >}}
<blockquote class="blockquote">
  <p class="mb-0">Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Integer posuere erat a ante.</p>
</blockquote>
{{< /example >}}

### Naming a source

Add a `<footer class="blockquote-footer">` for identifying the source. Wrap the name of the source work in `<cite>`.

{{< example >}}
<blockquote class="blockquote">
  <p class="mb-0">Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Integer posuere erat a ante.</p>
  <footer class="blockquote-footer">Someone famous in <cite title="Source Title">Source Title</cite></footer>
</blockquote>
{{< /example >}}

### Alignment

Use text utilities as needed to change the alignment of your blockquote.

{{< example >}}
<blockquote class="blockquote text-center">
  <p class="mb-0">Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Integer posuere erat a ante.</p>
  <footer class="blockquote-footer">Someone famous in <cite title="Source Title">Source Title</cite></footer>
</blockquote>
{{< /example >}}

{{< example >}}
<blockquote class="blockquote text-right">
  <p class="mb-0">Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Integer posuere erat a ante.</p>
  <footer class="blockquote-footer">Someone famous in <cite title="Source Title">Source Title</cite></footer>
</blockquote>
{{< /example >}}

## Lists

### Unstyled

Remove the default `list-style` and left margin on list items (immediate children only). **This only applies to immediate children list items**, meaning you will need to add the class for any nested lists as well.

{{< example >}}
<ul class="list-unstyled">
  <li>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet</li>
  <li>Consectetur adipiscing elit</li>
  <li>Integer molestie lorem at massa</li>
  <li>Facilisis in pretium nisl aliquet</li>
  <li>Nulla volutpat aliquam velit
    <ul>
      <li>Phasellus iaculis neque</li>
      <li>Purus sodales ultricies</li>
      <li>Vestibulum laoreet porttitor sem</li>
      <li>Ac tristique libero volutpat at</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Faucibus porta lacus fringilla vel</li>
  <li>Aenean sit amet erat nunc</li>
  <li>Eget porttitor lorem</li>
</ul>
{{< /example >}}

### Inline

Remove a list's bullets and apply some light `margin` with a combination of two classes, `.list-inline` and `.list-inline-item`.

{{< example >}}
<ul class="list-inline">
  <li class="list-inline-item">Lorem ipsum</li>
  <li class="list-inline-item">Phasellus iaculis</li>
  <li class="list-inline-item">Nulla volutpat</li>
</ul>
{{< /example >}}

### Description list alignment

Align terms and descriptions horizontally by using our grid system's predefined classes (or semantic mixins). For longer terms, you can optionally add a `.text-truncate` class to truncate the text with an ellipsis.

{{< example >}}
<dl class="row">
  <dt class="col-sm-3">Description lists</dt>
  <dd class="col-sm-9">A description list is perfect for defining terms.</dd>

  <dt class="col-sm-3">Euismod</dt>
  <dd class="col-sm-9">
    <p>Vestibulum id ligula porta felis euismod semper eget lacinia odio sem nec elit.</p>
    <p>Donec id elit non mi porta gravida at eget metus.</p>
  </dd>

  <dt class="col-sm-3">Malesuada porta</dt>
  <dd class="col-sm-9">Etiam porta sem malesuada magna mollis euismod.</dd>

  <dt class="col-sm-3 text-truncate">Truncated term is truncated</dt>
  <dd class="col-sm-9">Fusce dapibus, tellus ac cursus commodo, tortor mauris condimentum nibh, ut fermentum massa justo sit amet risus.</dd>

  <dt class="col-sm-3">Nesting</dt>
  <dd class="col-sm-9">
    <dl class="row">
      <dt class="col-sm-4">Nested definition list</dt>
      <dd class="col-sm-8">Aenean posuere, tortor sed cursus feugiat, nunc augue blandit nunc.</dd>
    </dl>
  </dd>
</dl>
{{< /example >}}

## Responsive font sizes

In Bootstrap `v5`, we've enabled responsive font sizes by default, allowing text to scale more naturally across device and viewport sizes. Have a look at the [RFS]({{< docsref "/layout/overview#responsive-breakpoints" >}}) page to find out how this works.
